.TH "ls" "1" "" "seed 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
ls \- list directory contents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ls
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIFILE\fR...]
.br
.B ls \-\-help
.SH DESCRIPTION
ls lists files and directories. With no operands it lists the current directory.
.PP
By default, directory operands are traversed and hidden entries are omitted. Sorting defaults to name order.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-1
Print one entry per line.
.TP
.B \-a
Include entries whose names start with '.'.
.TP
.B \-A
Include hidden entries except '.' and '..'.
.TP
.B \-d
List directory operands themselves instead of their contents.
.TP
.B \-F
Append indicators to certain names: '/' for directories, '@' for symlinks, '*' for executables, and '|' for FIFOs.
.TP
.B \-g
Use long format but omit the owner field.
.TP
.B \-h
With long format, print human\-readable sizes.
.TP
.B \-i
Show inode numbers.
.TP
.B \-l
Use long format.
.TP
.B \-n
Use long format with numeric user and group IDs.
.TP
.B \-o
Use long format but omit the group field.
.TP
.B \-p
Append '/' to directory names.
.TP
.B \-R
List subdirectories recursively.
.TP
.B \-r
Reverse the selected sort order.
.TP
.B \-s
Show allocated block counts.
.TP
.B \-S
Sort by size, largest first.
.TP
.B \-t
Sort by modification time, newest first.
.TP
.B \-U
Do not sort directory entries.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show a short usage summary.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B ls \-la
Show all entries in the current directory in long format.
.TP
.B ls \-ld dir link
Show metadata for directory operands without traversing them.
.TP
.B ls \-1R tree
Recursively list a directory tree with one entry per line.
.SH SEE ALSO
find(1), stat(1)
